What is a Language?

As I kid, I always hated spelling tests. I was never very good at spelling, nor did I care a great deal about the proper orthography of a word. I figured that if you could understand what I was trying to say, what did it matter how the words looked on the page? I also found the spelling of words to be arbitrary, and I never understood why “knuckle”, “knee” and “knife” had silent k’s, or “night”, “fight” and “light” had silent gh’s. What’s the point of a letter existing if it’s silent? And then, when I felt my exasperation with the English language could not get any worse, I saw a picture on the internet that read like this:

Olny srmat poelpe can raed tihs...it deosn’t mttaer in waht oredr the ltteers in a wrod are, the olny iprmoatnt tihng is taht the frist and lsat ltteer be in the rghit pclae. 

The fact I could in fact read that message infuriated my 11 year old self. I thought, “why does spelling matter when the human brain can interpret this utter ‘Gibberish’ on the page into intelligible language?” This strange sentence caused me to question what a “language” is. The Oxford English Dictionary defines a language as: “The system of spoken or written communication used by a particular country, people, community, etc., typically consisting of words used within a regular grammatical and syntactic structure.” I find this definition to be too narrow, and it raises the question can we even define language in absolute terms?
Clearly, the “Gibberish” text above is not English, and yet I could read it with few problems in comprehension. Those words on the page are communicating ideas to me, like a legitimate language would. However, if I were to try to pronounce such a language (as written) no one would be able to understand me. This property of “Gibberish” shows that spoken language is not congruent with written language. The same applies for English. In English, we say that the spoken word for “refrigerator” /ɹɪˈfɹɪdʒəˌɹeɪɾɚ/ (this is the International Phonetic Alphabet spelling for this word, showing how it is pronounced) corresponds to the written letters “r-e-f-r-i-g-e-r-a-t-o-r” (in that order), which in turn corresponds to that big metal box in your house that keeps deli meat and leftover take-out cold in order to preserve them. But I could easily spell “refrigerator” as “rifridgereyder” and looking at the word, it would be difficult to understand what I meant unless you tried to say the word out loud. If a computer tried to read “rifridgereyder”, it would not be able to interpret the word as “big metal box that keeps things cool”, nor would it recognize it as a word at all. This shows that there are several ways to write a single spoken set of sounds, demonstrating a non-direct relationship between written and spoken language. 
In rejecting the idea that spoken and written language are equivalent, I also began to reject grammar as a concept. As a result, I began to harbor pretty nihilistic views about the rules of language; I felt that I had been placed in a prison of language every time I had to utter the word “whom”, or say “William and I” instead of the more natural, “me and William.” Grammar seemed old-fashioned and rather pointless until I began to understand that grammar creates structure for a language. To express complex ideas without confusion, grammar is quite important. And in day-to-day life, word order (a big piece of English grammar) is absolutely necessary. A demonstration of this is to try to put the word “only” in different places in the sentence below:

She told him that she loved him.

Every placement of the word “only” changes the meaning of the sentence significantly. “She told only him that she loved him”, is much different from “She only told him that she loved him,” is it not? But to say that “me and William” as opposed to “William and I” is flat out wrong, simply because that construction does not follow the rigorous rules of grammar, is not a fair judgement on the validity of the phrase as language. Does your understanding of the sentence change if I were to say “me and William” or “William and I”? No, the meaning is the same, and the rules (or should I say guidelines, due to their vast irregularity) of English word order are not necessary, and only add a layer of difficulty to the “proper” language.
Language is not only challenging to define and foolish to codify, but also dynamic. Language evolves over time, and to combat this natural change with imposing fixed grammar is an exercise in futility. Recently, the acceptance of people who do not identify as male or female (non-binary people) has become more mainstream. Many of these people use the preferred pronoun “they” as a gender-neutral alternative to “he” or “she”, to be more true to their gender identity. However, there are some people that reject the idea of the “singular they” on a grammatical basis, saying that “they” is properly used as a third person plural pronoun. But the “singular they” had made its way into popular use long before the advent of LGBT+ rights. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, “they” has been used in “reference to a singular noun or pronoun of undetermined gender” since 1375, during the Middle English period, long before Modern English grammar was even conceived. 
Over time, language not only changes in vocabulary, but also in pronunciation. Right now, at this very moment, American English is going through a massive vowel shift, and you might not even be aware of it. Linguists call this phenomenon the “cot-caught merger” and it is most common in New England, Western Pennsylvania and most states west of the Mississippi River. Before I explain what this merger is, say the following words out loud:

	Tall
	Caught 
	Dog
	Walk
	Knot
	Thought

Did all the vowels sound the same? If so, then you have the merger and are at the vanguard of linguistic change. If not, than you are pronouncing American English “correctly”, but your pronunciation will soon fall out of use (sorry). Traditionally, words like “cot” were pronounced like “caht” /kɑt/  and “caught was pronounced like “cawt” /kɔt/. Over time, these vowels have begun to merge into a single “caht” /kɑt/ sound. This change may seem insignificant at the moment, but it is a testament to the ever changing nature of language. Similar vowel changes occurred in English many hundreds of years ago (feel free to google the “Great Vowel Shift”, but that topic is much too complex to discuss here), resulting in modern homophones such as “meet” and “meat”, or “to”, “two” and “too”, which are spelled differently but still sound the same. 
	To me, language is alive. Over the last two thousand years, Latin has evolved into tens of daughter languages, like Spanish, French and Italian, just due to geographical isolation and time. This process is quite similar to the way living organisms evolve. Over time, features of language begin to change, such as pronunciation, grammar and syntax, and every new generation of speakers changes a language into something not quite what it was 50 years ago, and even farther from what it was 500 years ago. These features are like the DNA of the language. With each replication, the DNA becomes damaged and mutated, and soon sponges become lizards, which become apes which become humans. Evolution, natural or linguistic, cannot be stopped. Although grammar may be necessary in some instances, enforcing old, outdated structures and spellings is like swimming against the tide; ineffective and ultimately exhausting. As the great Bob Dylan once said, “You better start swimmin’ or you’ll sink like a stone, for these times they are a changin’”.
